# CodeClauseInternship_customerlifeprediction
# Problem Statement
 A leading insurance companies in India. It provides motor vehicle insurance at the best prices with 24/7 claim settlement. It offers different types of policies for both personal and commercial vehicles. It has established its brand across different regions in India. Around 90% of businesses today use personalized services. The company wants to launch different personalized experience programs for customers of VahanBima. The personalized experience can be dedicated resources for claim settlement, different kinds of services at the doorstep, etc. In order to do so, they would like to segment the customers into different tiers based on their customer lifetime value (CLTV). In order to do it, they would like to predict the customer lifetime value based on the activity and interaction of the customer with the platform. So, as a part of this challenge, your task at hand is to build a high-performance and interpretable machine learning model to predict the CLTV based on user and policy data.
# About the Dataset
You are provided with the sample dataset of the company holding the information of customers and policies such as the highest qualification of the user, total income earned by a customer in a year, employee status, policy opted by the user, type of policy and so on and the target variable indicating the total customer lifetime value.
# Data Description
id : Unique identifier of a customer gender : Gender of the customer area : Area of the customer qualification : Highest Qualification of the customer income : Income earned in a year (in rupees) marital_status : Marital Status of the customer {0:Single, 1: Married} vintage : No. of years since the first policy date claim_amount : Total Amount Claimed by the customer (in rupees) num_policies : Total no. of policies issued by the customer policy : Active policy of the customer type_of_policy : Type of active policy cltv : Customer lifetime value (Target Variable)
# Lifetime Value Definition
Customer lifetime value is the total amount of money a customer is expected to spend with your business, or on your products, during the lifetime of an average business relationship. Customer Lifetime Value is calculated by multiplying your customers' average purchase value, average purchase frequency, and average customer lifespan. CLV = Average Purchase Value + Average Purchase Frequency + Average Customer Lifespan Average Purchase Value = Total Revenue/Total Number of Purchases Average Purchase Frequency = Number of Purchases/Number of Unique Customers Average Customer Lifespan = Sum of Customer Lifespan/Number of Customers
